# Project Tile: Northwind-Traders Project

## Disclaimer: This is not real-world project but use for the purpose of learning to demostrate skills in Excel and PowerBI

- title: Analysing Northwind-Trader data-set to answer business questions using Excel and powerBI
- author: Tosin Emmanuel
- Date: 2023-12-26

## Project Description

This is an analysis of the Sales performance of Northwind Traders, It is done by analyzing data from Northwind Trader dataset.
I analyse data from category table,customer table,employee table,order table,order_detail table,products table and shipper table both on Excel and powerBI to silve different business questions, i imported the dataset to excel and powerBI from local disk respectively.

## Problem Statement.

- The goal of this anlysis is to solve the following in Excel;
  - Calculate the total sales (revenue) for each category of products.
  - Determine which customer has placed the highest number of orders.
  - Calculate the total sales generated by each employee.
  - Show the trend in sales over time.
  - Calculate the average time it takes to process an order from the order date to the
shipped date.

- Also solve the following with PowerBI;
building a top-level KPI dashboard for the executive team. Its purpose should be to allow them to quickly understand the company's performance in key areas, including:
  - Sales trends
  - Product performance
  - Key customers
  - Key customers

## Skills and Concept Demonstrated:

- Excel
  - pivot table
  - data modeling
  - functions:inedx,match,mode,average.
- PowerBI
  - creating new column to calculate total price
  - Creating key performance indicators (KPIs) and other business calculations,
  - Data modelling
  - using Dax to perform basic measures
  - filters
  - tooltips
  - Ccreating Dashboard

 ## Data Source

 The data used for this work is gotten from Northwin Traders. I studied the Schema, Objects related to the Schema, data dictionary and found the right tables for the analysis.

You can find a link to get started with installation and restoration of the database to your local machine. [here](https://maven-datasets.s3.amazonaws.com/Northwind+Traders/Northwind+Traders.zip)

## Data Transformation

- i added another colum on orders table to calculate days between the oreder and the ship date
- After carefully studying the data set, I have to add column showing calculation for Revenue, this is done in both excel powerBI

- I began writing several Dax with aggregate to create measures with right metrics. Measures  created name is "Measures".

## Data Modelling

Tables were automatically joined by creating relationships with them, PowerBI does this intelligently. However, as someone that understands the dataset and want to get specific insights and information. I had to desmostrate my skill inthis by removing the automation and did another model.

## Data Analysis and Visualization

-  Calculate the total sales (revenue) for each category of products.
  - i used pivot table to calculate the sales revenue by creating relationship and joining categories table and order_details table

- Determine which customer has placed the highest number of orders.
  - This is solved by using the combination of index,mode and match functions on customerID column Orders table.

 - Calculate the total sales generated by each employee.
 - i used pivot table to do this calculation by creating relationship and joining employee table and order_details table

-  Show the trend in sales over time.
  - i used pivot table to join and create relationship betwee  Order table and order_details table. i show trends in  **sales in months history and sales over time**

- PowerBI dashboard showing;
  - Sales trends
  - Product performance
  - Key customers
  - Key customers









Welcome to my portfolio.
This project demostrate my skill in **Excel** and **PowerBI**


